[FLINK-34685][cdc][doc] add kubernetes.md under deployment directory. (#3165)
apache/flink-cdc: docs/content/docs/deployment/kubernetes.md

specific language governing permissions and limitations
under the License.
-->

# Introduction

Kubernetes is a popular container-orchestration system for automating computer application deployment, scaling, and management.
Flink's native Kubernetes integration allows you to directly deploy Flink on a running Kubernetes cluster.
Moreover, Flink is able to dynamically allocate and de-allocate TaskManagers depending on the required resources because it can directly talk to Kubernetes.

Apache Flink also provides a Kubernetes operator for managing Flink clusters on Kubernetes. It supports both standalone and native deployment mode and greatly simplifies deployment, configuration and the life cycle management of Flink resources on Kubernetes.

> For more information, please refer to the [Flink Kubernetes Operator documentation](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-kubernetes-operator-docs-main/docs/concepts/overview/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, please refer to the [Flink Kubernetes Operator documentation](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-kubernetes-operator-docs-main/docs/concepts/overview/).
```

## Preparation

The doc assumes a running Kubernetes cluster fulfilling the following requirements:

- Kubernetes >= 1.9.
- KubeConfig, which has access to list, create, delete pods and services, configurable via `~/.kube/config`. You can verify permissions by running `kubectl auth can-i <list|create|edit|delete> pods`.
- Enabled Kubernetes DNS.
- `default` service account with [RBAC](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-master/docs/deployment/resource-providers/native_kubernetes/#rbac) permissions to create, delete pods.

> If you have problems setting up a Kubernetes cluster, then take a look at [how to setup a Kubernetes cluster](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have problems setting up a Kubernetes cluster, please take a look at [how to setup a Kubernetes cluster](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/).
```

cd /path/flink-*
./bin/kubernetes-session.sh -Dkubernetes.cluster-id=my-first-flink-cluster
```

After successful startup, the return information is as follows：

```
org.apache.flink.kubernetes.utils.KubernetesUtils            [] - Kubernetes deployment requires a fixed port. Configuration blob.server.port will be set to 6124
org.apache.flink.kubernetes.utils.KubernetesUtils            [] - Kubernetes deployment requires a fixed port. Configuration taskmanager.rpc.port will be set to 6122
org.apache.flink.kubernetes.KubernetesClusterDescriptor      [] - Please note that Flink client operations(e.g. cancel, list, stop, savepoint, etc.) won't work from outside the Kubernetes cluster since 'kubernetes.rest-service.exposed.type' has been set to ClusterIP.
org.apache.flink.kubernetes.KubernetesClusterDescriptor      [] - Create flink session cluster my-first-flink-cluster successfully, JobManager Web Interface: http://my-first-flink-cluster-rest.default:8081
```

**please refer to [Flink documentation](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-master/docs/deployment/resource-providers/native_kubernetes/#accessing-flinks-web-ui) to expose Flink’s Web UI and REST endpoint.**    

> **You should ensure that REST endpoint can be accessed by the node of your submission.**

Reviewer: What about using a better style for this kind of reminders? For example: https://github.com/apache/flink-connector-kafka/blob/15f2662eccf461d9d539ed87a78c9851cd17fa43/docs/content/docs/connectors/datastream/kafka.md?plain=1#L47-L50

which displays like the blue box as below:
<img width="909" alt="image" src="https://github.com/apache/flink-cdc/assets/18453087/32b51ff3-96d4-4efa-b665-efc919f2892d">

Then, you need to add these two config to your flink-conf.yaml:

```yaml
rest.bind-port: {{REST_PORT}}
rest.address: {{NODE_IP}}
```

{{REST_PORT}} and {{NODE_IP}} should be replaced by the actual values of your JobManager Web Interface.

### Set up Flink CDC
Download the tar file of Flink CDC from [release page](https://github.com/apache/flink-cdc/releases), then extract the archive:

```bash
tar -xzf flink-cdc-*.tar.gz
```

> flink-cdc directory will contain four directories: `bin`,`lib`,`log`,`conf`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Extracted `flink-cdc` contains four directories: `bin`,`lib`,`log` and `conf`.
```

Download the connector package listed below and move it to the `lib` directory.    
**Download links are available only for stable releases, SNAPSHOT dependencies need to be built based on master or release branches by yourself.**
- [MySQL pipeline connector 3.0.0](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/org/apache/flink/flink-cdc-pipeline-connector-mysql/3.0.0/flink-cdc-pipeline-connector-mysql-3.0.0.jar)

> - [Apache Doris pipeline connector 3.0.0](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/org/apache/flink/flink-cdc-pipeline-connector-doris/3.0.0/flink-cdc-pipeline-connector-doris-3.0.0.jar)

Reviewer: What about pointing to `Connectors` pages here? It's hard to list all connectors here as our ecosystem expands in the future.

### Submit a Flink CDC Job
Here is an example file for synchronizing the entire database `mysql-to-doris.yaml`：

```yaml
################################################################################
# Description: Sync MySQL all tables to Doris
################################################################################
source:
 type: mysql
 hostname: localhost
 port: 3306
 username: root
 password: 123456
 tables: app_db.\.*
 server-id: 5400-5404
 server-time-zone: UTC

sink:
 type: doris
 fenodes: 127.0.0.1:8030
 username: root
 password: ""

pipeline:
 name: Sync MySQL Database to Doris
 parallelism: 2

```

You need to modify the configuration file according to your needs.     
Finally, submit job to Flink Standalone cluster using Cli.

```bash
cd /path/flink-cdc-*
./bin/flink-cdc.sh mysql-to-doris.yaml
```

After successful submission, the return information is as follows：

```bash
Pipeline has been submitted to cluster.
Job ID: ae30f4580f1918bebf16752d4963dc54
Job Description: Sync MySQL Database to Doris
```

> We can find a job  named `Sync MySQL Database to Doris` is running through Flink Web UI.    

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then you can find a job named `Sync MySQL Database to Doris` running through Flink Web UI.    
```

For more information, please refer to the [Flink Kubernetes Operator documentation](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-kubernetes-operator-docs-main/docs/concepts/overview/).

## Preparation

The doc assumes a running Kubernetes cluster fulfilling the following requirements:

- Kubernetes >= 1.9.
- KubeConfig, which has access to list, create, delete pods and services, configurable via `~/.kube/config`. You can verify permissions by running `kubectl auth can-i <list|create|edit|delete> pods`.
- Enabled Kubernetes DNS.
- `default` service account with [RBAC](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-master/docs/deployment/resource-providers/native_kubernetes/#rbac) permissions to create, delete pods.

If you have problems setting up a Kubernetes cluster, please take a look at [how to setup a Kubernetes cluster](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/).

## Session Mode

Flink runs on all UNIX-like environments, i.e. Linux, Mac OS X, and Cygwin (for Windows).  

> You can refer [overview](../connectors/pipeline-connectors/overview.md) to check supported versions and download [the binary release](https://flink.apache.org/downloads/) of Flink,

Reviewer: Dead link:

```suggestion
You can refer [overview]({{< ref "docs/connectors/overview" >}}) to check supported versions and download [the binary release](https://flink.apache.org/downloads/) of Flink,
```

Author: addressed it.
